Hi friends
In this video we're going to discuss about
the need of strings in C.
SO why do we need strings? We have char
datatype in C, but it can only store a single
character
For example if we want to store a then we
can create a char
variable c1 and store a in it
Or if you want to store * we can create
another variable c2 and store * and it
And remember we enclose the character in single quotes but
this can be used when we want to store single
characters
So what if we want to store a word or
a line? Then we can make use of strings
For example if we want to store the word India
or the words C programming or the words etc etc
we can use string and a string is an array
of characters terminated by null character \0 and strings
are enclosed in double quotes
where as characters are enclosed in single quotes
So what is the difference between a character array?
the major difference is that there is no null
character in an array of characters But the string must
always be terminated by the null character and it is
very useful in many cases where we process the string
We can easily find the end of the string and now
about the applications of strings.
Many software application programmes such as notepad, word, spreadsheets
database tools were developed using strings and
it's manipulation features
So that's all and thank you for watching this video